Date of Hearing: 
The date of the hearing is Monday, 3 October 2022.


Date of Judgement: 
The date of Judgment is not provided in the given context information.


Plaintiff and Defendant: 
The context information does not provide the names of the plaintiff and defendant involved in the case.


Judge: 
The name of the judge is not provided in the given context information.


Background of Plaintiffs: 
There is only one plaintiff mentioned in the given context. The gender of the plaintiff is not specified. The age of the plaintiff during the accident and the trial or assessment of damages is not provided. The occupation of the plaintiff before the accident is also not mentioned.


Background facts of case: 
- The plaintiff and the defendant were the only witnesses at the trial.
- The plaintiff claimed that after her work, she and her male colleague were riding motorcycles when they were involved in an accident.
- The plaintiff stated that she was forced to cross double white lines during the accident.
- The defendant was charged with careless driving.
- The plaintiff did not dispute the fact that she was unable to properly control her motorcycle, which led to the collision with the defendant's taxi.
- The plaintiff did not mention anything about the defendant's behavior to the magistrate when given the chance to do so.
- The plaintiff claimed to have suffered multiple injuries in the accident.
- The defendant did not dispute the plaintiff's injuries but stated that the plaintiff had achieved good recovery as shown in medical reports from public hospitals.
- The plaintiff's claim was dismissed by the court due to lack of contemporaneous records and the story being deemed improbable and incredible.


Legal Issues: 
- The legal issue discussed is the preparation and use of a written opening by counsel in advance of a trial.
- The judge argues that the purpose of a written opening is to help the court understand the issues and the basis of the plaintiff's claim before the trial begins.
- The judge criticizes the plaintiff's counsel for not being able to justify bold assertions made in the written opening and for hiding behind the excuse that it was not written by him.
- The judge states that there is no need for a plaintiff solicitor to engage a counsel to prepare a written opening unless the counsel is able to represent the plaintiff at trial.
- The judge emphasizes that counsel who appears at the trial should not assume that the court will accept a written opening prepared by another counsel unless they are fully conversant with its contents and able to provide full assistance to the court.
- The judge warns that failing to do so may lead to unnecessary adjournment of the trial and possible wasted costs order against the solicitor or counsel involved.
- The judge suggests that the costs of preparing a written opening not drafted by the counsel who appears at the trial should be disallowed if the plaintiff succeeds in the case.
- The judge also indicates that in the future, the PI masters or taxing masters in the District Court should look out for such situations and disallow the costs of the preparation of a written opening not drafted by the counsel who appears at the trial.


Rulings: 
The judge made the following rulings:
1. The costs order will be made on a nisi basis, and if there are no applications by the parties within 14 days, the nisi order on costs will become absolute.
2. The judge found the practice of having someone other than the counsel who appeared for the plaintiff at the trial prepare the written opening extremely unsatisfactory and troubling.
3. The judge refused to make an award for loss of earning capacity in the case, as there was no evidential basis for such a claim.
4. The judge agreed to award medical and traveling expenses at HK$16,110 and HK$2,500 respectively, and considered the tonic food expenses at HK$2,500 reasonable and allowed.
5. The judge would have awarded damages in the case if they had found in favor of the plaintiff on liability.
6. The judge made various orders regarding the scheduling and listing of the case for trial.


injury:
The context information does not provide any specific details about the plaintiffs' injuries or any psychological symptoms such as persistent low back pain, stiff back, tenderness at the lumbosacral junction and both sacro-iliac joints, nightmares, depression, PTSD, etc. Therefore, it is not possible to identify the specific injuries or psychological symptoms suffered by the plaintiffs based on the given context.


Loss of amenities: 
There is no information provided in the given context regarding any loss of amenities experienced by the plaintiff.


Medical evidence: 
There is no specific mention of the medical evidence for each plaintiff in the given context.


Earnings of plaintiff: 
The context information does not provide specific details about the income or earning abilities of each plaintiff.


Quantum:
The amount of damages or compensation to be awarded to each plaintiff is as follows:

Plaintiff 1:
- PSLA (Pain, Suffering, and Loss of Amenity): HK$500,000
- Pre-trial loss of earnings and MPF (Mandatory Provident Fund): HK$87,156
- Post-trial loss of earnings and MPF: Nil
- Loss of earning capacity: Nil
- Pre-trial expenses: HK$21,110

Total amount awarded to Plaintiff 1: HK$608,266


Issues related to quantum: 
The court made the following rulings and provided reasons for each of the heads of damages:

1. Loss of earning capacity claim: The court refused to make an award for loss of earning capacity as there was no evidential basis for such a claim in this case.

2. Medical and travelling expenses: The court agreed on the amount of HK$16,110 for medical expenses and HK$2,500 for travelling expenses.

3. Tonic food expenses: The court considered the amount of HK$2,500 for tonic food expenses as reasonable and allowed it due to the initially serious injuries suffered by the plaintiff.

4. Pre-trial expenses: The court awarded a total of HK$21,110 for pre-trial expenses.

5. PSLA (Pain, suffering, and loss of amenity): The court would have awarded HK$500,000 for PSLA if it had found in favor of the plaintiff on liability.

6. Pre-trial loss of earnings and MPF (Mandatory Provident Fund): The court would have awarded HK$87,156 for pre-trial loss of earnings and MPF if it had found in favor of the plaintiff on liability.

7. Post-trial loss of earnings and MPF: The court would not have awarded any amount for post-trial loss of earnings and MPF.

8. Conclusion: The court dismissed the plaintiff's claim with costs in favor of the defendant.

9. Interest: If the court had found in favor of the plaintiff on liability, the damages awarded would have been HK$608,266 plus interest.

10. Costs: The plaintiff, who failed to establish her case, was ordered to pay the costs of the defendant in this action.

11. Conclusion on liability: The court dismissed the plaintiff's claim due to the lack of contemporaneous records and the inherent improbability and incredibility of the plaintiff's allegations.

12. Quantum: Given the court's conclusion on liability, it proceeded to determine the amount of quantum that would have been awarded to the plaintiff if her claim had not been dismissed.

13. The plaintiff's injuries and recovery: The court acknowledged that the plaintiff suffered multiple injuries in the accident but achieved good recovery as shown in the various medical reports from public hospitals.


Costs: 
The court ruled that the plaintiff should bear the costs of the defendant on an indemnity basis. The defendant was awarded costs in this case.


Legal representation: 
The legal representative or lawyer for the plaintiff is not mentioned in the given context information. The context does mention that the plaintiff was represented by her present solicitors when the proceedings were first issued in the Court of First Instance of the High Court. It also states that the plaintiff's solicitors filed a notice to act for the plaintiff on a certain date. However, it does not provide the specific names of the lawyers representing the plaintiff.

Similarly, the context does not mention the legal representative or lawyer for the defendant.


Accident circumstances: 
The accident involved a collision between the plaintiff's motorcycle and a taxi. Before the accident, the plaintiff claimed that she was forced to increase her speed in order to avoid a collision between her motorcycle and the defendant's motorcycle, as the defendant was driving closely behind her. The plaintiff also stated that she could not reduce her speed before entering a left bend because the defendant would have crashed into her motorcycle. As a result, the plaintiff lost control of her vehicle, crossed the double white lines, and crashed into the taxi. The injuries sustained by the plaintiff were caused by the collision with the taxi.